You know, the first book written on salad, I just want to pick up on that.
Well, I was very good friends with the people I love still, but, you know, when you live 72 years and you make friends,
with people at the age of 40 who have 60 and 70 at that time.
That's extraordinary.
That's really something.
And you know, it tastes really good.
Shall we shut this off while we get there?
She has a touch again.
Hi, Ben.
to a very good school, and like all the kids in my country, in Harvard.
Thank you.
And would you have a mercy now?
I would like it.
I learned in the school how to learn.
And I really want to learn everything possible about cooking.
So I was very curious about every book I read.
I want to know everything I could.
And I always have that feeling that, well, if I buy a book, and then the second, the third one, and the tenth one,
And from 10 books that I paid $100, I've got one recipe that I can use.
That's why I'll support the next 30 books.
Did you find recipes in all books that you used?
Can you think of any out there?
Yes.
For 25 years, we used in my restaurant a boiled dressing, a salad dressing that I found in an old American cookbook.
Boiled?
So you boiled your salad dressing?
Yes.
I never heard of such.
And that was the house special salad dressing?
That was the only dressing.
If you didn't like that dressing, you could have it.
Oil and vinegar, and lemon juice, but no other dressing.
What distinguished it?
What made our salad dressing?
I think it was the velvety texture, and the fact that the taste of the cream, and the taste of the cream, and the taste of the oil,
pudding like starch, and then at the end, the last minute, you add the ice cubes and the herbs together.
It gave a texture like no other dressing.
Well, it wasn't sweet.
It wasn't tangy or... It's kind of like a sweet sour, wouldn't you say?
It was made with honey.
Oh, it was made with honey.
And mustard.
We followed an order or something.
And what did you follow in the restaurant?
Did you give it any kind of... They gave it some dressing.
That's great.
And I've heard people ask you all the time, well, what's your recipe for this?
And what did you tell them?
We gave them the recipe.
It was in my cookbook.
which was published by the new york cards it was a pie magazine's best seller list any other uh entrees or something like that that you picked up in the collection we're in the collection
based on famous Americans.
How about, now these are American recipes, how about any continental things?
Oh yeah, sure.
What would you say was the most, what was your prize, did you have a single prize possession in the collection?
Do you have any incutables, for instance?
I have two or three.
I think your trancher books work.
Trancher, table-side carving.
You had the Petit Manuscript, which was in itself a beauty.
I owned a manuscript from the table-side carving written in French.
Carving.
And I owned the first German book on table-side carton, the first Italian, the first Spanish, the first Portuguese.
And a table-side carton?
I'm cutting up meat, meat, uh... Yes, fabulous.
And you assemble these all individually or separately.
I kept buying them, yes?
Did you buy at auctions from dealers?
How did you find them?
You see, my great advantage of coming from a book-loving and book-collecting and book-buying family was... Thank you.
You know,
French Joseph, the emperor of Austria-Hungary, had a mistress, Catherine Schrapp, who was an actress at Catherine Schrapp.
made a convenience marriage.
She was married to a Hungarian nobleman, to a baron who was a diplomat.
The diplomat's mother wrote a handwritten code book and gave it as a present to Catherine Schraub.
How do you spell Catherine's name?
S-C-H-R-A-T.
The son of Katharish Rapa was called Baron Kish.
He immigrated to England and when he died of his possession was
sold an auction.
On that auction was her cookbook, Kathleen Schrutz cookbook.
And in the cookbook was with Kathleen Schrutz and writing the recipe for that
basically the kugelhoops that the emperor ate every afternoon in her apartment.
When the auction came up, Clifford Max, the Max Brothers, was at the auction and when this item came up he bought it for me.
without asking me.
He was so sure that I would want it, that he, whatever it would cost, he purchased it.
He knew that?
Because he knew me, he knew my father, my grandfather, my great-grandfather, I was his customer since years, my checks never bounced.
He knew that being Hungarian, collecting coke book, I do want that book.
And he was right.
I was never upset when a book read the book.
Probably I felt a little bit sorry, but not absolutely.
Really?
So many people say that their biggest regret is not how much money they spent on the editing, but the ones that got away.
You know, you don't feel that way?
No.
Do you ever feel that maybe you spent too much for anything?
Sometimes, very sadly.
Usually if there was something that was written for that catalog rate, a more exceptional piece came up later that
And it didn't matter.
Don't you feel we always, like, a Lincoln or a Washington, we might have missed it or been too late to buy it, but there was always a better one that came up, more media?
So what was the name of the pastry, by the way?
You said it was a... Kugelhoop.
Kugelhoop.
K-U-G-E-L-H-U-P-F.
Did you ever make it?
No.
Was it any great?
I mean, he ate it every day.
It must have been great.
Did you ever make it in the restaurant?
Sometimes.
Really, the restaurant and the collection were separate entities.
I think it's reaching to say that one energized the other.
Well, I could never have the collection.
We'd have the restaurant.
But I certainly could have the restaurant we talked about.
No question.
I interviewed a guy in New York a couple of weeks ago.
His name is Michael Zinman.
Have you ever heard of him?
No.
He's got one of the finest collections of American imprints in the United States.
And his business is easy to install birthworms.
He sells caterpillar crackers.
The point is, his collection has absolutely nothing to do business.
See what I'm saying?
The Westerns made the collection possible, but I don't... I think it's reaching, but it is, I find it really wonderful that you did collect in the area that you made your profession.
Now, you really weren't always a professional chef in the restaurant store.
You were trained as a psychologist, as I understand.
Why didn't you collect books on psychology?
Who told you I didn't?
Is that right?
Where are they?
They go to Chicago.
Still in my home.
Oh, you kept them.
So far, yes.
That's wonderful.
Now, when did you start collecting presidential signatures?
You know, I never collected presidential signatures.
Presidential autographs.
I collected only material signed by American presidents if they wrote about food, drink, entertainment.
That's all.
And how did you find these?
I mean, you had your shelves out there.
You had the dealings?
You see, the greatest joy is the hunt.
You know?
Only lazy, lousy hunters send out scouts.
Good hunters go and shoot their stuff.
Well, did you represent yourself at auctions?
In the beginning when I was stupid.
But you would locate, identify the item and then you would commission a dealer to get it.
But you found the item.
And sometimes I didn't even call the dealer to my commission why I won the title.
Why don't you tell them the story about the auction of the Jefferson Unwind?
Oh, good evening.
We should be teaching about this place.
It was about a shit house.
So then we realized that we have to put it on money.
That the change is fabulous.
Barbara was with us since the day she left high school.
She used to eat in our restaurant while she was in high school.
She started in the restaurant at the rock bottom.
She did really everything, scrubbing the floor, serving the food, and in the kitchen, giving out the food, and cutting the milk.
ordering the wine, you name it, the most diverse things for the person.
And my wife and myself and Barbara and my brother and my brother's wife, we've been the management of the rest of the world.
And Barbara and I and my wife, we worked back here.
From seven days in the morning till two o'clock in the morning.
We took a break after night.
My wife probably came in.
She lay there because she did some paper work.
But we took a break afternoon and kept working till one o'clock at night.
Every day.
And she did everything with me.
I've worked up nights.
Has anybody coffee, tea, and dessert there on fire?
Coffee, coffee.
So, then she started to work with the books.
You know, when I say with the books, that means with the menus, with the hotel ephemera,
with old American newspapers where she was marking every food-related item, with old almanacs, calendars, American history books, with all the American periodicals of the 19th century.
Anything and everything was hard to do
with life, because coming from a background of psychology, I feel that to live means to eat, and to eat means to live.
If you say this is a living being, that means this is something what consumes, what divorces.
what nourishes itself.
So, that
makes it very important that you look at food not only of something physiological, but also of psychological and spiritual.
All the religions are based in food.
So you brought intellectual baggage to your profession, not just culinary skills.
very anti-male wisdom, because Madam Mao said that she much rather sees the schools
educating electricians who know how to put in a light bulb than electro-engineers who know the theory of electricity.
That's why they collapsed, you know.
So probably I was not the best on
putting in the light bulbs.
But I know pretty much the theory of Alexis.
You know what I mean?
I know what you're saying.
But your restaurant was very highly respected.
Oh, absolutely.
I'm amused.
I saw a few reviews on it.
I thought that you hadn't kept up with the fashions.
You know, the yuppie fashions, I guess.
May I have anything to drive them?
Very good.
Thank you.
Food critics, so-called food critics, are very fickle, very jealous, very stupid people.
And very frankly, I did look balanced.
And very early in the game, I figured out
what they are doing.
They are like a pack of wolves and
When a new restaurant starts and gets successful, then they gang up.
Let's kill it.
You know?
When you were busy every night, people came back and... I know that I cannot avoid this.
But I know how can I counteract.
And what made them so angry that I can't have acted.
Instead of making a city-wide base, I made a nation-wide base for my restaurant.
And then I built an international reputation.
so that the local assholes could not harm me, could not touch me, whatever they wrote.
Because I was not only written up nation, but I was writing nation.
I had a weekly column in the Sun Times which was in 117 newspapers.
Now, how can a stupid Chicago, a stupid Chicago food writer who writes only for one little second-rate paper, how can he hurt me in Dallas, where the two Dallas papers are fighting which should bring my knowledge?
Or in Austin?
I mean, the only newspaper.
So they were very spiky.
I think it was a matter of jealousy.
And the other thing is we had one journalist who went on a record and said, no runs could go beyond this history within 10 years, yet they should close it up and start a new war.
What kind of a moron would make a statement like that?
But explain your theory about...
You see, the thing is, most of the people feel that restaurant is mama.
And if the restaurant is too successful, that means that mother splits up her motherly love among too many people.
And you don't want to.
You rather kill mother than let mother like other kids.
You know?
Stupid child.
And I have also
The personnel done better against me by a guy.
And then I backed him up nicely.
I dropped him.
One year after we are closed,
You should read what he writes about me, but he is not wonderful.
And how about the award they wrote when you were slipping?
I think I'm so curious.
The top 100 restaurants by business executives were ranked in the US and they wrote you a letter that you slipped on?
Yes.
And he wrote me a very polite letter that my ratings are not as high as last year.
And I showed him, no worry, I've been closed since the last year.
So you know, if I'm rated that high a year after I've closed,
That's very good.
That's funny.
Barbara, you mentioned something about, to tell me a story about Thomas Jefferson.
Thomas Jefferson.
Oh, yes.
Remember the food dealer from Marshall Field who was beating against you on the town of Jefferson, and it still sits in there safe.
Yes.
It's still that.
You know, it was a wine list from a wine dealer from friends addressed to Thomas Jefferson.
opening some fabulous wines.
You know, he was the number one gourmet among our presidents.
They just sold a bottle of his wine for $700,000.
Yes.
So, I felt, because I was buying wine from that company, and because I liked Jefferson at my end, the asking price was
The estimated price was $1,000 to $1,500.
That was 20 years ago.
I said to my wife, go up to $5,000 if I want to help.
I could afford it and I want to help.
The young gentleman was the newly hired head of the rare book and autograph department of Marshall Field in Chicago.
saw me bidding for this, so he started to bid against me.
And I thought, oh, if you want to play this game, it's all right, I know how to play the game.
We ran up to $47,000 of this piece of paper.
$47,000?
$47,000.
And it was up to $47,000.
It's still hard.
There's no market for it.
It's too much money.
Well, we knew that, but it was like... Didn't you know what happens if you get it at 40,000?
He was determined to get it.
He called it a Louis Salmari after this.
It's worth every nickel.
I never rent anymore to auction to pay anything.
If I rent, I let somebody do it.
You're all looking for him to bid it.
He's not there.
And I failed to do something.
I told my dear, if I want to go, I just think like this.
Then I want to stop.
I'm going to call myself.
Remember what it's called?
No.
I don't know.
Well, you know, we saw him, what, about three or seven years ago, he ran into this gentleman.
Yeah.
And he said that he would still look eligible.
I might just call and ask.
This was about 20 years ago, right?
And the auction was in Chicago?
Maybe.
18 years ago.
Where was the auction?
15 years ago.
I don't know about that.
You are with us since 20 years.
You've been there two years, probably three years.
You're in Chicago.
Uh, wasn't it a handful?
Oh, no, no, this was an auction at, uh, I'll talk about the name of the auction.
No, no, it was on Hansel Gallery.
H-A-N-S-E-L, or L-L?
Yeah.
I don't know.
What does your wife think about all this?
Does she share this passion?
Oh, she loves it.
And bronze, yeah.
You know...
That's very relative.
No, no, no.
But I try to think at the moment of purchase or later on or relative to the person's income when he buys it.
I bought the petite.
manuscript of the first book in French with about half the copper plates ready.
The rest in the hand-drawn
state of monsieur petit the outdoor chef who made petit you see he made the drawings and then he gave them to an agent and while he was making the book he died and this was his copies now i paid that book for three years i bought it
from, what was his name in Paris, the most famous, now there will be the other one.
They have it in Iowa, and I think the dealer has a little discreet for it.
That's right, yes.
The dealer has a little discreet for it.
It doesn't matter.
You paid it over three years is what you're saying.
It was lots of money.
Can you tell me how much?
How long ago?
Oh, about 15 years ago.
But you really, but you desperately wanted to have it.
And you never regretted buying it.
Oh, no, absolutely.
This fellow I was telling you about, I interviewed in New York, Zinman, who's made a ton of money.
But he said up until two years ago, and he never had spent a day in his life.
that he didn't owe some money to a bookseller, that he wasn't in debt to a bookseller.
Did you ever find yourself acquiring yourself to things to get books?
In the beginning, yes, when I came to the United States.
Many times I went out to work.
I worked six days, and on the seventh day I went out to work because I needed money.
I didn't owe money, but I needed the money to buy.
Because coming from Europe, I didn't like to open.
But you would define yourself some things to get a book of revenge.
Lots of things.
And you never regretted any of it, I guess.
How about parting with the books, now that they're out of the building in Chicago?
They're yours, it's the collection, the collection bears your name.
You know, I think it's only one part that's nice.
This is the first time you've seen these books on the floor.
You mean today?
Here.
But the other thing is, when I came to Chicago more than 30 years ago,
There was a fact, I didn't even live here in Chicago, I just came to visit to Chicago.
And I really, fit off knowing, admired Frank Lloyd Wright.
I admired what he was doing.
And he gave a talk
of the Chicago Press Club about the Mile High Building.
And one of the...
real young punks.
Somebody who is like Donaldson on television, you know, that kind of abrasive, stupid, cocky, investigative reporter type of joker, said to him, Maestro,
You think you will live that long to see that mile-high building?
No.
And you know, the room just froze.
And Frank Lloyd Wright, who was six foot three or six foot four, and he just got a little bit of bed.
that much now, around 18, and looked down on the guy, you know, and said, young man, I don't have to see because it stands my height in my heart.
Now sit down.
It stands my height in my height.
That's right.
So you see, the books,
I'm in my heart.
I don't have to see them.
You know?
That's the sense that I can even end it.
You know, I'm writing about you and your collection.
I visualize sentences as I use them.
Yeah.
But no, you know, this is the thing you still saw me on the phone.
I still cry a little bit at night.
Of course.
That's very normal.
That's part of love.
I go back again to King Solomon with the Thousand Vibes.
You know, when the guy gets old.
That's very understanding.
I got a little stuff here.
I'd like to go back and see.
I know it's getting a little late, so if I could just see a few of the things back at the...
Well, we go back.
That's how we plan.
I don't want to hold you up too much tonight either.
We figured that this evening is yours.
I'm really very... I filled this whole notebook today.
I haven't talked about... I read some things that you know are basically the inventor of frozen food packaging.
They're consulted in the food processing position.
Well, this is all really irrelevant, isn't it?
It's not relevant.
It's relevant, because it's given to the wherewithal to indulge the passion.
Not only that, but, you know, yes.
You see, this is the type of the story, like, the captain who is captain for 20 years.
You know, the captain who is a captain for 20 years without promotion.
That's right, Heather.
Good.
own and operate a food service management company.
And of course I was in the 50% and above tax bracket for three years.
And because I came from Europe and I went through hell, I never ever want to and never ever did cheat on my taxes.
But I had certain ways I learned to be able to cope with it.
I have a large corporation here as my client.
And they asked me to do something.
And they said, how much we owe you?
And I said, you know what?
I saw...
at such and such bookstore.
There's three beautiful books.
Money is a present, the three books.
You don't owe me any.
That's nice.
And you did this often?
I gave 22,000 photos to the University of Iowa.
A certain percentage of that I get as gifts from corporations.
I don't want you to write, I want you to understand.
The value of books.
What is the value of a book when you want to buy it or want to sell it?
Who knows?
One question you never bought for investment.
I did buy for investment.
Stocks and real estate.
I mean books.
No.
That's important.
Because any book collector who buys for investment is not a book collector.
It's the stupid ass who marries for money.
Okay.
You said that you've kind of placed the value of two million on the Johnson and Wales collection.
How about the one in Iowa?
And Chicago for that better.
I think both I can see...
very modestly in the highest six figures.
You mean the Hungarian collection and the Krupport collection?
Of course.
I think the Krupport collection.
You mean not a million or under a million?
Oh yeah.
Let me explain this.
You will understand what I will say now.
If I gave 22,000 cookbooks and I hired, because according to the new tax laws, I would be the one who would have to hire and pay
the appraiser, and if he would have to spend three months to check the price of 22,000 gold books, then I would have to pay
they usually charge 110 to 125 dollars an hour.
Eight dollars, eight hours a day, five days a week.
That would be approximately a four month job.
So when I ask an appraiser, I say, look,
Here is a list of 4,000 books.
I marked all the books which are over $300.
I also marked the books which are
in my estimation $200 to $300.
I mark the ones which are between $50 and $200.
And the rest, every book is $30.
Count how many we are.
make it so that you make 800 books $40, 400 books $30, 1,100 books $20, and 2,000 books $10.
And the IRS will always agree.
One year they challenged me, and they said, we are sending out two experts.
to examine.
They spent two weeks in my place.
After two weeks they left
And I get a letter from them that I underestimated with $7,000 my donation, and with $7,000 more than what I claimed.
More?
So you underestimated?
Oh, yeah.
I'm sure there'll be other questions.
Still writing?
Sure.
I have a weekly column in the Chicago paper in Sagincom Park.
I have a monthly column in the fastest growing food service industry publication.
I have a regular column in the International Wine and Food Society London European publication and one in their American publications.
And I write occasionally in other places.
So you're keeping busy.
You're not a retired retired man.
Not really.
You're doing different things.
So you ran the restaurants.
You were there every day.
It wasn't the... Every day.
Except...
when I was traveling, otherwise I was there.
We had a very good arrangement because when I went someplace with my wife, she was there with the rest of the family.
If my wife took Barbie to China to a cooking school,
Then I was there and the rest of the family, and when they went to Hanyevi, my wife and Barbara.
When I went with Barbara someplace, my wife was there and the rest of the family.
Remember when I was coming?
Yeah.
Remember when I went to do a television show, I took care of it.
Whenever I went to teach, I taught at Penn State for 11 years.
Then I always took help because she was my built-in.
Thank you very much.
Thank you both very much.
You're very well.
I guess one other question.
There must have been a point where the books were just pouring into the building, like a thousand.
Did you ever say, what am I doing?
Did you ever start to say, this is madness?
What am I doing?
Were you on a mission?
You defined your focus, sir.
You could have several focus, several areas of focus.
You went collecting everything.
Just secretly, I had a small apartment with an elegant little sign on a copper plate on the door.
And the sign was in Hungarian.
And it said in Hungarian, what the hell did I buy this for?
What the hell did I buy this for?
And that apartment was full of the things, but I was wondering, what the hell did I buy this for?
Did you answer the question?
Why did you buy this for?
I enjoyed it.
Venezuela.
And we went out to the jungle, to the rainforest, to an Indian market.
Once a month, the medicine man had
a market.
And there was a fabulous, long, giant, snake skin.
And I bought it.
And we took it home.
And I walked in that particular room in my office where I used to dictate.
I have a British secretary here.
It works for me.
I resist for 14 years.
I have a British secretary since 14 years.
As prevalent, English can be tall, red hair, skinny, flat chest.
So I had this little room and I said to the guy, put that snake skin on the wall.
And I was working in the kitchen and he came down and he said, should we cut out the rest?
I said, what do you mean the rest?
He said, that's too long for the wall.
I said, okay, then run on the other wall, you idiot.
He said, yeah, but it's longer than...
Who was?
I said, well, run as long as it works.
So then the man who was in charge came down and said, Chef Louis, we have the snakeskin now on all four walls.
Now what you want us to do with the rest?
Should we cut off the rest?
I said, roll it up and put it back in the plastic.
Still in the same goddamn class.
Why did you buy a snake's kit?
Because I thought you'd be nice on the wall.
I don't want to be enclosed in a snake's kit.
What are we looking at now?
All menus.
These are all menus.
Yes.
All the boxes, too.
Now, what was up to the bottom?
All books and cookbooks.
Tell me why menus are important.
Menus are probably not as much, but more important than cookbooks.
Why is that?
If you buy a cookbook, you never know did anybody ever cooked that recipe.
Was it popular at the time or not?
But menu in a restaurant, you don't put anything on a menu that you don't serve.
I wonder where there is another great collection of menus.
There probably isn't any.
Oh, at the University of Nevada.
Really?
Well, yeah, but that's what I'm saying.
Yeah, but you're the only one who gets it.
Postcards.
18,000.
More than 18,000, okay.
If I take a picture, I want you in it.
I've got a collection of 6,000 postcards.
Showing you out.
I'll tell you in a second.
Ever hear of Francis Henry Taylor?
Yeah.
He was the director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
He was also the director of the Worcester.
And when he died, a friend of this guy bought his whole library.
And he also, the man was a great collector of postcards.
Every place he went all over the world, he bought postcards.
And I'm at an auction.
These are Harper's Weekly?
These are all kinds of weeklies from Germany, from Austria.
from France, from England.
These are wonderful, by the way.
These are outstanding.
Well, these are basically wood engravings we're looking at.
Wood engravings.
Steel-like engravings.
Photograph used from the later time.
But this is a topical collection.
Absolutely everything on food.
And I could go on and on
All of these boxes, because this is all this.
So what do we say, Elendus?
This room now is all your stuff.
Yes.
And how long has this been here, this material?
Oh, just about less than a year.
Less than a year.
In this room, or this is your office?
Cool.
Nice.
I collected everything with you.
Your hand and your mouth.
Everything between your hand and your mouth.
You know this guy's signature?
No.
I don't have my glasses on.
I can't see it.
Bonaparte.
Ah.
Yeah.
We've got a Bonaparte room over at the Carter Brown Library.
Oh, that's Carter Brown, the John Hay.
Is this your desk?
Yes, sir.
Would you sit in it for me?
That's what I want to do.
Oh.
Oh, I like this.
Is Sierra replicating his office?
Oh, I haven't been to the back part.
There's more.
Oh, twice as much.
How do you like this place?
I don't like the smell.
I can't smell anything.
What is this?
The cookery?
I don't have my glasses on.
Elizabeth Robbins Pinnell, my cookery books.
And how do you spell her last name?
P-E-N-N.
E-L-L.
The book was designed by 1903.
It's beautiful.
It was a warbling way.
The book was designed by the number one American book designer of the time.
It's beautiful.
God, that's wonderful.
I think her husband was an expert on art.
I think it's like volume after volume.
That's 1903?
Bruce Rogers did the book.
Thank you.
That's very, very important.
And she talked about her collecting there?
But did she talk about her collecting?
330 copies printed out the Riverside Press Cambridge in the month of September 1903, of which this is number 243.
I'm going to look for that.
Is that a tough book to find, you think?
Yes.
Yeah, the prices are going.
That's all right.
I mean, I know that.
I mean, I just paid, you can't believe what I paid just to get a copy of Lessing Rosenwald's book, Recollections of a Collector.
It's only 14 years old.
I paid $285 for us.
It's a wonderful book.
You've had that book?
Lessing Rosenwald's book?
Yeah, her plates are put in.
Oh, Riverside.
Boy, Riverside pressed it.
It's a wonderful book.
Yes, this is the ledger you were talking about.
...facsimile.
Uh-huh.
Okay.
I'm looking, yeah.
George Washington.
Mm-hmm.
Now, this is not a facsimile.
This is actually
Accounts of George Washington with the United States commencing June 1775, running June 1783, comprehending a space of eight years.
Treasury Department and Registrar's Office
1st June 1833.
General Washington's account of expenses during a Revolutionary War, and his own handwriting is on file in this office.
Here next is a facsimile copy of it.
Okay.
That's it.
Now, why would they have made a facsimile of that?
Oh, the treasure.
And you said there are only a handful of copies of these, right?
Yes.
Four, something like that?
Oh, no, no, no, no.
The order, the thousand, but we destroyed it.
Why did they, why did they destroy it?
Because he found out that whatever he could not account for, he said, uh, intelligence and espionage.
Negative.
So that's... Now, this is the world's first book on salads.
The world's first book on salads.
Oh, you have a book plate.
Oh, I have several books.
That's my colleague.
Okay, this is already University of Iowa.
Yeah, that's what we mentioned.
Oh, this is the book that came overnight.
We did a filming for Proctor and Gamble.
They made a series, one on crosses and one on salads.
And so they used this in one of the props that would be shown all over the world.
That's magnificent.
In Venice, and my Roman numerals are good, but it looks to me like it's 1627, right.
And it's, I couldn't, I couldn't do it.
Aciditno, whatever it is.
Where does it say salads?
Oh, sure.
Del ensalata.
Aciditno, ovvero, del ensalata, y del uso di essa.
The usage of essig.
Essig is vinegar.
Now, are they salads as we know them?
Yes.
Why would they commit a whole book to sell?
Really, these books is really... I gave you that book with the apes.
Did you brought it in or still?
They really haven't foxed it off.
So, Biola already has the whole thing cattle on, too.
Oh, yes.
Not the whole thing, but the beginning.
You know, like, for seven years, year after year after year.
They must be very pleased with that.
And the thing about it is, it came to them out of the woodwork.
They had no idea that it was coming.
It was like mana from the sky.
I think it's very nice.
He seems like a pretty good guy.
David, a wonderful man.
Good to work with him.
He's very proud.
He's the one who told me to get in touch with you.
You know, he said, you've got to do this.
He told me I've got to do you.
Did you talk to David?
Yeah.
David's the one who... David, we love David.
David sent me... Oh, this is... Oh, look at the leather on it, huh?
That's...
Tell me what this is.
What is it?
That's a book against drinking, against alcohol.
Oh, this is a book against the consumption.
This is a temperance tract.
Yes.
Look this bit.
This is really nothing like it.
I can't believe.
You see, condition.
You always insisted on conditioning.
No, no.
Sometimes I've had books which have been hard to, and I know that I couldn't get a better one or until I get a better one.
Why is it all in Latin?
I thought you said it's local.
Oh, local meaning Johnson and Wales.
Yeah.
I didn't get it.
I'm sorry.
That's from the collection of Andre Simone, who was the founder of the International Wine and Food Society.
Is that your code or the bookseller's code?
The bookseller.
Do you erase what you paid out of them?
I'll leave mine in, because I like to know.
Certain times, no.
Certain times, yes.
It's magnificent.
How old is this?
Oh, this is, um, fifteen to hundred and sixteen.
Oh, my brother.
This is 1,540.
Oh, yeah, 1,540.
So it's 460, 450 years old.
1,540.
That's all right.
Is the binding, I don't know what the binding is.
The binding is about mid-80s.